+++
date = '2025-07-22T08:00:00+01:00'
draft = true
title = '7 Years 50 Posts'
aliases = ['/2025/07/22/7-years-50-posts']
+++

If I am not mistaken (and there is plenty chance that I am), this is officially the 50th published post on my blog! I was actually a little shocked to see that my current number of posts was sitting at 49 and figured that it was too good of an opportunity to pass up putting together a special 50th post… post.

I originally started this blog because of reading other blog posts espousing the importance of having your own little slice of the internet that you cultivate for yourself (e.g. [*Dark Matter Developers: The Unseen 99%* by Scott Hanselman](https://www.hanselman.com/blog/dark-matter-developers-the-unseen-99) and [*Why online identities are smart career moves* by Troy Hunt](https://www.troyhunt.com/why-online-identities-are-smart-career/) among many, many others).

For the first few years of my career I played the game of “yeah yeah I’ll start a blog, but only after I’ve developed my own blogging platform from scratch” (*something something [not invented here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Not_invented_here)*). I felt like if I was going to put a blog together I *had* to write it from scratch, otherwise I wasn’t “doing it properly”.

The big problem with this mindset was that I spent *years* thinking of posts I couldn’t *wait* to write, but I could only start on them after I did the other stuff. This was despite the fact that the entire purpose of this blog was to write about things that I was working on or that I found interesting, not to build the underlying technology for hosting it!

After [I went to Future Decoded](https://mattjameschampion.com/2018/11/14/future-decoded-2018/) I decided to bite the bullet and finally just go with the lowest-barrier-to-entry option I could find of a hosted [WordPress.com](http://wordpress.com/) plan, where I could throw some money at a company and focus on actually writing and publishing things. And it worked!

While it took me a little while to find my style (my early posts in particular are *hilariously* formal), I’m now in a position where I really enjoy the process of putting one of these together, not just the end result. Part of that enjoyment comes from letting go of some of the *dozens* of proofreading passes I used to consider so important; these days I’m much happier just getting as close to 100% as I can before the diminishing returns really kick in.

I’m still not posting as much as I’d like to though. I still spend a fair amount of time trying to be as accurate as possible ([nobody wants to be wrong on the internet!](https://xkcd.com/386/)), but it’s also because I treat a lot of my posts as artifacts for the future (including for my own benefit) so often spend the extra time to come up with some minimal repros or even [publish test projects on my GitHub](https://github.com/MattJamesChampion) to make things as simple as possible for readers. As such, I’m still trying to find a good balance between speeding things up while not losing the quality I want to put out there. I’m currently sitting on 70 WordPress drafts and 98 Notion pages in various stage of completion that I could really do with trying to get out the door though, so the faster I figure that out the better!

I really enjoy teaching and explaining things, so this blog has proven an extremely beneficial way of getting that energy out in a productive way (rather than being *that guy* trying to over-explain everything). It also forces me to really grapple with whether I actually understand what I’m writing about; [my recent post on the error “Unable to cast object of type ‘System.Int16’ to type ‘System.Int32’”](https://mattjameschampion.com/2025/06/23/unable-to-cast-object-of-type-system-int16-to-type-system-int32/) is a great example since I managed to fix it at the time and thought I understood why, but only realised after trying to write about it that I had come to the right solution with the wrong reasoning!

I’ve also found that I’m now in a place where I really do write for myself and any benefit that others get is just a lovely side effect. This helps me not care about my stats as much as I used to, which is helpful when [my post on setting up an Epson ET-2711](https://mattjameschampion.com/2021/01/31/epson-et-2711-et-2710-series-printer-wireless-setup-made-easy/) has consistently been my most popular post since it went up and has had literally hundreds of thousands of hits while most of my other posts took 10x the effort but have had only a few *dozen* hits over the years! Alas, printers are just that much of a pain to set up I guess.

Going forward I’ve got some exciting plans for this blog. Along with hopefully finding a rhythm for posting that I’m happy with, I’m also in the process of maybe possibly putting together a completely fresh version of this site built with [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/). Fear not, I’ll publish the classic “I migrated my blog from x to y” post with some more details on the how and why after it’s done (*aaaany minute now*), but the short version is that I wanted something more lightweight and with a less… antiquated style. I also wanted much more control to try out some weird and wonderful ideas that I’ve wanted to do but have been hamstrung by the tier of WordPress I’m on (and I refuse to pay them any more than I currently do (which is another blog post in waiting)).

Anyway, this was a slightly more meandering post than I usually go for, but I think it’s important to look back sometimes to see how far you’ve come. I’m really proud of what I’ve built and have had some lovely interactions because of it so I can only recommend to others: go forth and blog!